---
title: "How to navigate through the Mendix GenAI Portal as a developer"
#url: Set the relative URL of the document; after the name of the main directory/product the document is in, use the document title; example for document titled my-new-page.md, in refguide directory: /refguide/my-new-page/
#linktitle: Enter a short title to be used in the left side menu; increases readability and navigation through the menu
#weight: Enter the position of the document compared to other 'child' documents at the same level; number by 10 (for first), 20, 30, etc. for easy ordering of other documents in the future if necessary; don't add brackets or quotation marks
#description: "Set a description with a maximum of 140 characters; this should describe what the goal of the document is, and it can be different from the document introduction; this is optional, and it can be removed"
#draft: Set to true if page should not appear in production
---

## Introduction

Mendix offers GenAI resources to make working with GenAI easier! This document describes everything you need to know about the GenAI resources we offer!

## Mendix GenAI resources

Mendix offers the following GenAI resources:

### Compute - Embeddings Generation

Embeddings generation servers are designed to convert various types of data, such as text or images, into vector representations. These vectors, known as embeddings, are essential for numerous machine learning tasks.

**Uses:**

- Similarity Search: Finding similar items in a dataset.

- Clustering: Grouping similar items together.

- Classification: Categorizing items based on their embeddings.

### Compute - Text Generation

Text generation servers are used to create human-like text based on given inputs. This capability is crucial for applications that require natural language generation.

**Uses:**

- Chatbots: Providing conversational responses.

- Content Creation: Generating articles, summaries, or other written content.

- Code Generation: Assisting in writing code based on natural language descriptions.

### Knowledge Base

Knowledge base servers store and manage structured and unstructured data, providing quick access to information. They are essential for applications that need to retrieve and use knowledge efficiently.

**Uses:**

- Question Answering Systems: Providing answers to user queries.

- Semantic Search: Enabling search based on the meaning of the query rather than just keywords.

- Information Retrieval: Accessing specific information quickly and accurately.

#### Integration with Embeddings: 
The knowledge base uses embeddings generated by the Compute - Embeddings Generation servers. These embeddings help in organizing and retrieving information more effectively by understanding the semantic relationships between different pieces of data.

Read more about [using knowledge bases](#upload-data-to-your-knowledge-base)

## Manage keys in the Mendix GenAI portal

To run your [GenAI application](https://docs.mendix.com/appstore/modules/genai/using-genai/), you need to create a key. On the GenAI resource details page you will find an keys option to generate new keys.  

1. Click Create Key.

2. Give the key a description.

3. Make sure to safely store your key, we only show it once.

Once you have created a key, you can import it in your application (add link to a how to of one of the templates)

## Using the Knowledge base

In the knowledge base you can feed documents and files to your GenAI resource. To interpret the information of the knowledge base, an embeddings resource is connected to extract the information from the knowledge base to interpret the data so it can be accessed by the model. Currently we only support manual uploading files, but in the future we will support multiple of ther options: Connect to a MX Data source, Browse the public web, Sharepoint, Salesforce and Confluence.

### Metadata
You can add metadata to the files in your knowledge base, these will be used to make it easier to browse though the documents.


## Read More

* Getting started with GenAI {Link 1}
* Getting started with the Mendix GenAI templates
* Maia, and how she turned from a bee to a AI bot

{Make sure this section contains a bulleted list only with explanations where necessary. Do not just repeat cross-references you used throughout the document, but list useful supplementary links here.}